mind your decisions I'm presto Walker at
a rectangular table are for
mathematicians a b c and d they sit at
the following distances to the corners
of the table a saltshaker
s is placed on the table consider the
distance from each person to the
saltshaker
and take the sum of these distances at
some point the sum of these distances
will be a minimum value the question is
what is the minimum value of s a + SB +
SC + SD this problem has tremendous
practical applications you could imagine
the four points are either towns or
railway stations and you want to
calculate the least amount of roads or
tracks that you would need to connect
these towns or railway stations you
could also imagine the four points are
friends and they want to calculate the
most environmentally friendly point to
meet that is the one that minimizes the
sum of the distances they have to travel
you can really use this problem for many
applications in teamwork I adapted this
problem from a Sri Lanka Olympiad and I
think channel for the suggestion pause
the video if you'd like to give this
problem a try and when you're ready keep
watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
imagine we have four points in the plane
that form a convex quadrilateral we want
to determine the point s such that the
sum of distances to these four points is
a minimum value we will prove the rather
fascinating result s will be at the
intersection of AC and BD first let's
prove why this is true
consider the segment AC for any point X
in the plane we can connect a X and X C
let's consider those distances well by
the triangle inequality AC will be less
than or equal to ax plus CX then AC is
equal to a s plus C s we will put this
inequality to the side and for the same
point X we will consider the line
segment BD we will do a very similar
sort of argument by the triangle
inequality BD is less than or equal to B
X plus DX BD is equal to B s + D s we
thus have another inequality let's put
these two inequalities together by
adding them what happens well on the
left hand side we get the sum of the
four distances from each of these points
to s and on the right hand side we have
the sum of distances from some other
point X and we have shown that s is a
minimum value no other point can be less
than that therefore this is a minimal
value let's use this result to solve the
problem we will first determine where S
is by connecting AC and BD their
intersection point will be s from here
we need to calculate a S Plus s C + BS +
SD well do that by using right triangles
first let's calculate the length of AC
we have one right triangle here one leg
will be equal to 22 and the other leg
will be equal to 60 therefore we can
calculate the length of the hypotenuse
using the Gogu theorem and we get 210
square root of 1021 this will be equal
to a s plus CS we can then do the same
sort of calculation to determine the
length of BD we have a right triangle
where one leg is 25 and the other leg is
40 we can therefore calculate the length
of BD using the Gogu theorem and we get
5 times the square root of 89 this will
be equal to BS + TS we then can
calculate the sum of the four distances
and that will be equal to two times the
square root of 1021 plus five times the
square root of 89 and that's
approximately 111 0.08 and that's our
answer it's a rather fascinating
optimization problem with an elegant
geometric solution thanks for making
minor decisions one of the best channels
on YouTube as always thanks for watching
and thanks for your support